[Music]
it's great unfairly just back in time
there are 11 puppies in this pack it's
one huge family and that's one thing
that sets wild dogs apart from most
other predators they're very tight
extended family bond these large
cooperative packs have a huge advantage
when it comes to hunting which gives
them the highest strike rate of all
large predators on the continent they
together with all the Predators are
forced to come to more or less the same
spot as a result of this drought the
honeypot the focus of all life is around
the river and around the salt springs
Simon spots one dog with a broken foot
it's amazing to see that it's in good
health and keeping up with the pack it's
evidence of the benefits of teamwork the
camera team will keep tabs on the dogs
over the final days of the dry season as
the pack focused their hunting around
the salt springs but this is also where
our lion pride is holding forward so it
could spell trouble just a few hundred
metres downstream is one of the salt
springs lion pride the female with the
collar and it was only a day or so ago
that the entire pride was just upstream
of here on a buffalo kill so these dogs
really are caught between a rock and a
hard place because lions are their
archenemy for now though they're
oblivious to the danger
[Music]
you can often judge an animal's success
by how much the youngsters play these
guys play a lot all the time increasing
their agility and building their speed
what they haven't noticed is that one of
the lionesses from the salt Springs
pride has arrived on the scene and
hidden in a thicket
she's keeping a close eye on the pack
but the dogs huge ears allow acute
hearing and the adult dog's attention is
grabbed by an impalas alarm core an
antelope has spotted the lion
straight away one of the adults is on
the case
the lioness presents a very real threat
she will kill a dog if she can catch one
one by one the adults and the sub adults
tried to distract her and draw her away
from the pack
it gives the dog with a broken foot time
to chaperone the puppies to safety
the lioness loses interest and leaves
the spring
[Music]
there's two cups a tiny still there
probably about six seven weeks old
[Laughter]
the reserve is home to 40 lions living
in three separate prides the quite a
Gore pride is the largest and they're
all known by name the oldest female is
called nabob she has two five-year-old
daughters now she's a grandmother and
the coy Tagore pride has a third
generation it's one of NAB O's daughters
who was given birth to these young cubs
these little guys are the grandchildren
of the first lioness that I ever got to
know here in Sudbury
he's now really old female he was called
Noble which means one in Sandberg cuz
she's to have one bloke black spot on
her nose and I see she's still very much
an important presence in this pride and
sticks around the central area of
Samburu in fact she will definitely be
having some contact with these Cubs
it's exactly what supper had hoped for
the reserves newest arrivals are just in
time for high season
oh sweet oh look over this way it's a
mess
okay the lioness has seen it
the good honey's body posture
the Cubs are holding their ground which
is important we don't want them to just
sort of turn and blindly panic and just
rush off over there
okay the lowness is coming forward the
Cubs are scattering
Yanni's following up
you can feel the uncertainty and honey I
mean she keeps stopping looking back she
wants to creep away but at the same time
she must keep watching that lioness she
doesn't want to let her out of her sight
okay the lioness is running she is
stalking towards our cheetah family as
if she was stalking prey those murderous
she can hear honey making that growling
warning sound that she's telling her
cubs this is dangerous
look look
honey's going towards her look at honey
look how brave she is look at her she's
prepared to confront that lioness she is
prepared to defend those cubs if she has
to she's saying to that lioness normally
I might run away but when I've got guns
don't push me look at her look at honey
and the lioness is running look at that
[Music]
look
and see that see the way she slapped the
ground like that just saying to that
lion s get out of here
that was honey saying nobody he's gonna
kill another of my Cubs
elephants are in immediate danger they
must drink almost daily driven on by
thirst they march hundreds of miles
across the parched Plains
[Music]
relying on memory the matriarchs lead
their families to those special water
holes that save them in previous years
this one still has water but they must
share what remains with desperately
thirst animals of all kinds these are
tense times
[Music]
the elephant's dominate the waterhole
that as night falls the balance of power
will shift thirsty herds continue to
arrive throughout the night it's a
cooler time to travel
in the darkness the tables turn the
elephant's night vision is little better
than our own but lions have much more
sensitive eyes
[Music]
the cats are hungry and the elephants
seem to sense it
[Music]
Lions don't usually hunt elephants but
desperate times require desperate
measures
this herd contains cars easier targets
[Music]
how to reach them
the adults encircle their yard
it's an impenetrable wall of gray
a few exhausted stragglers are still
arriving one of them is alone
[Music]
but it's too big for the Mayans
this one looks a little smaller a
[Music]
[Applause]
solitary lion stands no chance but the
whole pride is here there are 30 of them
and their specialist elephant hunters
[Music]
this elephant will feed the whole pride
for at least a week elephants know these
drinking holes are dangerous but they
have no choice the dramas that play out
here are a savage reminder of how
important water is for all life on these
Plains as the heat of the day wanes
animals become more active
[Music]
after sunset there's a drop in
temperature of about 10 degrees and
that's a cue for the night hunters to
venture out in search of a meal
[Music]
when the night filming crew arrived on
the scene of the Buffalo kill found
earlier the lion pride male had shown up
he's the only mature male in the group
he's about seven years old and has been
fitted with a radio collar by the
Zambian carnival program he's a big cat
probably over 200 kilos and one of his
most important roles is to defend the
pride and territory against competitors
hyena is a top of the list when it comes
to Alliance enemies
a large clan of hyena have been
attracted by the scent of the Buffalo
killed
[Music]
while the adult lions including the
females do their best to keep these
would-be thieves at bay
here the thermal cameras show one of the
pride lionesses chasing off a loan hi
then suddenly the pride male catches one
of the hyenas off-guard and stamps his
authority in brutal fashion
[Music]
with the breaking dawn all but one of
the hyenas has retreated but even the
injured individual won't give up amazing
dramas here is absolutely no love lost
between these two
eternal adversaries and still the hyena
lives and I'd love to be able to tell
you that the reason for a lion attacking
a hyena is simply to defend his meal but
you know what truth is y is a pretty
brutish and they will try and grab and
kill just about anything whether it's a
predator or otherwise if it doesn't
represent a meal they just leave it if
it does of course they eat it but in
that way you know pretty violent fashion
they absolutely are top of the tree when
it comes to the posters out here
[Music]
beggars belief doesn't it how can an
animal survive being suffocated
effectively by a male lion and still be
breathing just breathing but have the
will to live that is so keen that it
gets up and it goes only a hyena only a
hyena you may not think they're
beautiful but my goodness you've got to
respect them you've got it
[Music]